# 20190504 - Network

## 1) Overview

### 1-1. Network Programming

Def : Programming technique that swap server's data and client's data through streams.

* Requirements

  1. IP address

     : a primary key of 4byte size for identifying computers(LAN card).

     since analyzing LAN card number is difficult, we usually change to DNS address. (ex, `www.naver.com`)

  2. Port

     : a primary key for special service that provided IP server.

     we can use Port numbers between 0 to 65535

     usually, numbers of 0 to 1023 are used(reserved) for familiar services.

     for example, http services only supported through 80 port, ftp supported 21 and smtp supported 25.

     So, these port numbers cannot conflict.

  3. Protocol

     : a rule for networking between server and client.

     Protocol is divided into Data structure, meaning, velocity, transfer method, etc...

### 1-2. InetAddress

in java, we can use `InetAddress` class to handle IP addresses.

Usage example)

```java
import java.net.InetAddress;
import java.net.UnknownHostException;

public class InetAddressTest{
    public static void main(String[] args) throws UnknownHostException {
        InetAddress naver = InetAddress.getByName("naver.com");
	    // get InetAddress object through the DNS name(transferred by host address)
        System.out.println(naver.getHostAddress());
        // IP address (host address)
        System.out.println(naver.getHostName());
        // Domain name

        InetAddress local = InetAddress.getByAddress(new byte[] {(byte)192, (byte)168, 1, (byte)100 });
        // get InetAddress object thorugh the IP address
        System.out.println(local.getHostAddress());
        System.out.println(local.getHostName());
    }
}
```

```
210.89.160.88
naver.com
192.168.1.100
192.168.1.100
```



### 1-2. Socket Programming

In fact, Network programming also a kind of I/O instructions.

we call Node of Network programming by `Socket`.

these sockets can communicate through InputStream & OutputStream.



in java, the java.net package support `TCP`(Transmission Control Protocol) and `UTP`(User Datagram Protocol).

` Transmission ~= Transfer `

these protocol are also kind of network programming.

* TCP

  two sockets communicate directly. and TCP seek reliability.

  * reliability
    1. ensure the order of data transfer
    2. verify whether the data is correctly received.

  it is slower than UDP technique.

  * we can make TCP by using ServerSocket, Socket.

* UDP 

  like TV broadcast, this structure don't have direct connection between sockets.

  And, only interested clients are take the data.

  * various type of connection (1:1, 1:n, n:n)
  * fast communication
  * unreliable data transfer. so, it is difficult to verify success of data communication. (also, the order of data transfer is often distracted.)



### 1-3. TCP network programming

* basic TCP process between client and server

  1. in The server, ServerSocket object in each Port waiting the connection of Client.

  2. ServerSocket can take the connection request by users.

  3. Client request the connection to Server by creating Socket object (use server's IP, Port)

  4. Server accept the client's connection by `accept()` method

  5. Socket object is created (it is return value of `accept()`).

     => it will manage the 1 : 1 connection (server to client)

  6. construct InputStream and OutputStream and start communication.









